---
description: Filter & drop noisy logs
---

# Filtering & Dropping

Timber offers the ability to filter and drop logs. This is great for noisy, low value logs, such as health check logs that you otherwise do not need.

{% hint style="warning" %}
This feature is currently in beta and is being actively improved as we receive feedback.
{% endhint %}

## Getting Started

{% hint style="warning" %}
Filtering within the [Timber web app](../clients/web-app/) is not currently available, but it is available through our [API](http://docs.api.timber.io). Because this is such a simple feature, the instruction below use the [Timber API](http://docs.api.timber.io) directly.
{% endhint %}

In your `shell` issue the following `curl` command:

* Replace `YOUR_API_KEY` with your [actual API key](account-management/api-keys.md).
* Replace `YOUR_ORGANIZATION_ID` with your Timber organization ID.
* Replace `FILTER_NAME` with the name of your filter \(ex: "Drop health check logs"\)
* Replace `MATCH` with the [sub-string that your logs must contain to qualify dropping](filtering-logs.md#how-it-works).
* Replace `SOURCE_ID` with the ID of the relevant [source](source-management.md). Add as many as you like.

```bash
curl https://api.timber.io/log_filters \
  -s \
  -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '
    {
      "organization_id": "YOUR_ORGANIZATION_ID",
      "name":"FILTER_NAME",
      "match":"MATCH",
      "source_ids": ["SOURCE_ID"]
    }
  ' \
  | jq
```

## Usage

### Adding

Please see the [Getting Started guide](filtering-logs.md#getting-started).

### Listing

You can list your current log filters with a simply `curl` command:

* Replace `YOUR_API_KEY` with your [actual API key](account-management/api-keys.md).

```bash
curl https://api.timber.io/log_filters \
    -s \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY" \
    | jq
```

### Disabling

Simply remove all `application_ids` from your log filter:

* Replace `YOUR_API_KEY` with your [actual API key](account-management/api-keys.md).

```bash
curl https://api.timber.io/log_filters/ID \
  -s \
  -X PUT \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY" \
  -d '{"source_ids": []}' \
  | jq
```

### Removing

You can remove a log filter in the same way you added it, through `curl`:

* Replace `YOUR_API_KEY` with your [actual API key](account-management/api-keys.md).
* Replace `ID` with the ID of your log filter.

```bash
curl https://api.timber.io/log_filters/ID \
  -s \
  -X DELETE \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY" \
  | jq
```

## Fields

### name

The name of your log filter. This should be a short, descriptive name for humans.

### match

The sub-string to match in your logs. If your logs contain this sub-string in the `message` field then it will be dropped. See [How It Works](filtering-logs.md#how-it-works) below.

## How It Works

### Substring matching

Your logs contains a variety of fields, and the `"message"` field is what contains the actual log message. This is the value we apply your `match` value against to determine if it should be dropped.

### Case Insensitive

Your match value is case insensitive. Any log that contains the `match` sub-string will be dropped regardless of it's case.

### Example

Given these log lines:

```javascript
{"message": "Hello world"}
{"message": "A log line message"}
{"message": "I said hello world"}
{"message": "Hello universe"}
```

And a `match` value of `"hello world"` . The result should be:

```javascript
{"message": "A log line message"}
{"message": "I said hello world"}
```

Lines 1 and 4 were dropped because they both contained the `"hello world"` substring.

## FAQs

### Will I be charged for filtered / dropped logs?

No. Logs are dropped before they are counted towards your billing.

### Why do you recommend dropping logs at the source?

It is [much more efficient](../guides/reducing-log-volume.md#filtering-application-side) and alleviates your app from having to send the logs at all. If possible, we recommend not sending the log at all. In some cases this is not possible, such as logs generated by a hosted platform, and this is a great use case for filtering on the Timber side.

### Can I drop logs based the value of an attribute?

Not yet. Log filtering is currently in beta and the first version shipped with sub-string matching only. We plan to add more options around matching and filtering in the future.

### Can I drop logs with regex?

Not yet. Log filtering is currently in beta and the first version shipped with sub-string matching only. We plan to add more options around matching and filtering in the future.

### What else can I do to reduce log volume?

Checkout our [Reducing Log Volume guide](../guides/reducing-log-volume.md).



